MY FIRST GUEST IS THE
FORMER DEPUTY DIRECTOR
OF THE F.B.I. WHO WAS FIRED
AFTER LAUNCHING
INVESTIGATIONS INTO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S TIES TO RUSSIA.
HIS NEW BOOK IS "THE THREAT."
PLEASE WELCOME, FORMER DEPUTY
DIRECTOR OF THE F.B.I. ANDREW
McCABE!
♪ ♪ ♪
( APPLAUSE )
HAVE A SEAT.
WELCOME TO THE SHOW.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Stephen: I-- I IMAGINE YOU
NEVER THOUGHT THAT YOU WOULD BE
ON A LATE-NIGHT TALK SHOW.
>> NEVER IN MY WILDEST DREAMS,
YEAH, OR NIGHTMARES.
>> Stephen: BECAUSE YOU MOSTLY
HAVE WORKED ON THINGS YOU REALLY
CAN'T DISCUSS WITH THE REST OF
US.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
LIKE EVERYONE WHO WORKS FOR THE
F.B.I., YOU LIVE A VERY PRIVATE
LIFE.
THE WORK THAT WE DO IS
OFTENTIMES-- IT'S ALWAYS
SENSITIVE.
IT'S OFTEN CLASSIFIED.
IT'S THINGS WE DON'T TALK ABOUT.
>> Stephen: LEGALLY, DO YOU
HAVE TO LOOK AND DRESS LIKE AN
EXTRA FROM "DRAGNET" TO BE IN
THE F.B.I.
>> OF COURSE,.
>> Stephen: IT'S A GOOD LOOK.
I TRY TO ROCK IT WHEN I CAN.
>> GOT IT.
>> Stephen: NOW, YOUR NEW BOOK
IS CALLED "THE THREAT," AS I
SAID BEFORE "HOW THE F.B.I.
PROTECTS AMERICA IN THE AGE OF
TERROR AND TRUMP."
( APPLAUSE )
YOU HAVE TO GIVE THIS TO DONALD
TRUMP.
HE IS SINGLEHANDEDLY SAVING THE
PUBLISHING INDUSTRY IN AMERICA
BECAUSE EVERYONE WHO EVER SPENT
FIVE MINUTES IN A ROOM WITH HIM
IS JUST STAMPEDING A PUBLISHER
TO SAY, "YOU WON'T BELIEVE WHAT
THIS GUY SAID!"
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S A SERIES OF
AMAZING INCIDENTS WHEN YOU HAVE
TO INTERACT WITH THE PRESIDENT.
SO IT'S GREAT FODDER FOR STORY
S.
>> Stephen: AT ALL-- AT ALL
TIMES, BUT THIS PRESIDENT IN
PARTICULAR.
YOU-- AS I SAID, YOU WERE ACTING
DIRECTOR AFTER COMEY WAS FIRED.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Stephen: AND OPENED TWO
INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE
PRESIDENT, IF I'M CORRECT.
>> IT'S ACTUALLY ONE
INVESTIGATION WITH A DUAL
PURPOSE.
SO THERE'S A CRIMINAL CONCERN.
WE THOUGHT THAT THERE MAY HAVE
BEEN A FEDERAL CRIME COMMITTED
-- THAT BEING OBSTRUCTION OF
JUSTICE.
>> Stephen: WHEN HE FIRED
COMEY.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
THAT'S CORRECT.
AND WE ALSO FELT LIKE THERE WAS
A POSSIBILITY THAT A THREAT TO
NATIONAL SECURITY MIGHT EXISTED.
>> Stephen: BECAUSE HE MIGHT
BE COLLUDING OR CONSPIRING WITH
THE RUSSIANS, OR THEY MIGHT HAVE
SOME COMPROMMATE ON HIM.
>> IT'S A LITTLE BIT MORE
GENERAL THAN THAT.
IF YOU THINK THAT THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES MAY HAVE
FIRED THE DIRECTOR OF THE F.B.I.
FOR THE PURPOSE OF INTERFERING
WITH OR STOPPING OUR
INVESTIGATION INTO RUSSIAN
MALIGN INFLUENCE IN THE
CAMPAIGN, THE QUESTION YOU HAVE
TO ASK YOURSELF IS, "WHY?
WHY WOULD ANY PRESIDENT DO
THAT?"
AND THAT GIVES RISE TO THE
COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE CONCERN?
WHY WOULD THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES BE TRYING TO
OBSTRUCT AN INVESTIGATION INTO
RUSSIA'S ACTIVITY?
AND WHAT-- WHAT MAKES YOU, THAT
THE PRESIDENT FIRED COMEY
BECAUSE OF THE RUSSIA
INVESTIGATION, OTHER THAN THE
FACT THAT HE SAID THAT OUT LOUD?
(  LAUGHTER  )
( APPLAUSE )
( CHEERS )
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
>> Stephen: IS THERE ANYTHING
OTHER THAN THAT?
IS THERE OTHER THAN, LIKE, WHAT
HE SAID TO LESTER HOLT.
>> THAT WAS A GOOD THING.
AND IT WAS SOMETHING WE WERE
AWARE OF.
>> Stephen: IT'S CALLED A LEAD
IN THE BUSINESS.
>> IT WAS AN INVESTIGATIVE LEAD.
THERE WERE A NUMBER OF THINGS
THAT CONCERNED US.
AS WE INVESTIGATED THE
POSSIBILITY OF RUSSIAN COLLUSION
WITH THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN THROUGH
THE FALL.
SO THAT'S THE INVESTIGATION THAT
JIM COMEY HAD MADE PUBLIC.
>> Stephen: WHAT IS IT LIKE TO
BE IN A ROOM WHERE PEOPLE ARE
SERIOUSLY CONSIDERING AND
EVENTUALLY DECIDE TO, WHAT'S IT
LIKE TO BE IN THAT ROOM WHEN
YOU'RE HAVING TO SERIOUSLY
CONSIDER WHETHER TO INVESTIGATE
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES?
>> YEAH, IT'S UNBELIEVABLE.
I MEAN, LOOK, WE DON'T TRAIN AT
QUANTICO FOR, "HERE'S WHAT TO DO
WHEN YOU THINK YOU NEED TO
INVESTIGATE THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES."
IT'S JUST NOT A TOPIC THAT WE
TALK ABOUT.
( LAUGHTER )
BUT WHAT WE DO TRAIN ON IS WE
SAY, "LOOK, THESE ARE THE
AUTHORITIES WE HAVE.
AND THIS IS HOW WE LAWFULLY
EXECUTE THEM."
WHEN WE HAVE INFORMATION OR
FACTS THAT INDICATE A CRIME MAY
HAVE BEEN COMMITTED OR THAT A
THREAT TO NATIONAL SECURITY MAY
EXIST, THEN WE ARE OBLIGATED AS
THE F.B.I. TO INVESTIGATE THAT
MATTER, WHETHER IT'S THE
PRESIDENT OR ANYBODY ELSE.
WE DON'T OPEN INVESTIGATIONS
BECAUSE WE LIKE SOMEONE OR DON'T
LIKE THEM OR BECAUSE THEY'RE A
REPUBLICAN OR A DEMOCRAT.
WE OPEN INVESTIGATIONS WHEN WE
HAVE THE INFORMATION THAT WOULD
PREDICATE AN INVESTIGATION.
WE HAD THAT IN THIS INSTANCE,
UNDENIABLY.
>> Stephen: ALL RIGHT, YOU
DESCRIBE THE PERIOD OF TIME
AFTER DIRECTOR COMEY WAS FIRED
AS-- AS A PERIOD OF CHAOS AND
FRENZY AT THE F.B.I.
HEADQUARTERS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Stephen: WHAT IS THE F.B.I.
LIKE WHEN IT'S IN A CHAOTIC
FRENZY?
THAT'S A DISCONCERTING
DESCRIPTION.
>> OUR DARK TIES ARE SLIGHTLY
ASKEW ON OUR WHITE SHIRTS.
THAT'S THE FIRST TIME.
>> Stephen: JUST, THAT OKAY?
(  LAUGHTER  )
( APPLAUSE ).
>> YOU KNOW-- KNOW --
>> Stephen: YOU'RE NOT DRAMA
QUEENS.
>> NO, NO.
THERE'S NOT A LOT OF, YOU KNOW,
PEOPLE RUNNING THROUGH THE HALLS
WITH THEIR HAIR ON FIRE.
IT WAS A VERY SERIOUS TIME.
I HAD-- YOU KNOW, I FELT THAT MY
TIME AS ACTING DIRECTOR WOULD
LIKELY BE VERY SHORT.
I KNEW THAT BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT TOLD ME THAT WAS THE
LIKELY RESULT.
( LAUGHTER )
AND I KNEW THERE WAS WORK WE
NEEDED TO DO TO MAKE SURE THE
INVESTIGATIONES OF ON ROCK-SOLID
GROUND.
>> Stephen: THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS SAYS THAT YOU ASKED FOR A
BACKUP PLAN TO PROTECT RUSSIA
EVIDENCE.
WHAT-- WHAT-- WHAT WAS THAT
BACKUP PLAN?
>> I CAN'T TELL YOU THE DETAILS
OF THE BACKUP PLAN, BUT I CAN
SAY THIS, STEPHEN.
WE-- THAT'S OUR JOB, RIGHT?
THAT'S OUR JOB TO PREPARE FOR
VERY WELLITY.
>> Stephen: IS IT ON, LIKE, A
THUMB DRIVE INSIDE A BRICK SOME
PLACE AT DUPONT CIRCLE?
DID YOU HAVE TO DO SPY STUFF TO
HIDE IT?
>> IT'S ON THE TAPE REELS THAT
TURN TO SMOKE AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE SHOW.
>> Stephen: YEAH, YOU JOKE,
BUT NOW I KNOW THOSE ARE REAL
BECAUSE IT'S ITS FIRST THING YOU
THOUGHT OF.
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: OKAY--
>> NO, WE NEEDED TO DO IF
DIRECTOR MUELLER WAS SBL FIRED
AND HIS TEAM WAS DISBANDED.
AND WHAT WE NEEDED TO DO IN THAT
CIRCUMSTANCE WAS TO BE ABLE TO
TAKE OUR CASES BACK AND CONTINUE
THAT INVESTIGATION.
THAT'S KIND OF WHAT WE THOUGHT
THROUGH.
>> Stephen: YOU WORKED FOR
MUELLER, DIDN'T YOU?
>> I DID, FOR MANY YEARS.
>> Stephen: WHAT'S HE LIKE AS
A PERSON?
>> HE'S A TOUGH GUY.
HE IS-- HE IS A LOT OF WHAT
YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT HIM.
HE IS AN INVESTIGATOR AT HEART.
THAT IS WHAT HE LOVES TO DO.
HE LOVES CASES.
HE LOVES TO GET HIS HANDS ON
THEM.
HE LOVES TO HEAR THE DETAILS,
TALK TO THE INVESTIGATORS, PLAN
STRATEGY, AND MOVE
INVESTIGATIONS FORWARD.
SO I AM SURE THAT HE IS JUST AS
HAPPY AS HE CAN POSSIBLY BE IN
THE POSITION HE'S CURRENTLY IN.
>> Stephen: HE LOOKS HAPPY.
( LAUGHTER ).
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: JUST A BIG, SILLY
GRIN ALL THE TIME ON HIS FACE.
>> THAT'S-- THAT'S ABOUT AS
HAPPY AS HE GETS.
(  LAUGHTER  ).
>> Stephen: HAVE YOU EVER SEEN
HIM IN CHAOS OR FRENZY?
WHAT'S THE MOST EXERCISED YOU'VE
SEEN ROBERT MUELLER?
>> I'VE SEEN HIM FRUSTRATED.
I'VE SEEN HIM, YOU KNOW,
DISAPPOINTED WITH THE THINGS WE
WERE TELLING HIM.
>> Stephen: WHAT DOES HE DO?
LIKE, HOW DOES HE EXPRESS
HIMSELF?
>> YOU KNOW, WHEN DIRECTOR
MUELLER WOULD GET FRUSTRATED WE
HAD THIS SIGN THAT WE WOULD
ALWAYS LOOK FOR.
IF HIS HEAD CAME DOWN INTO HIS
HAND, WE KNEW IT WAS A PROBLEM.
WE'RE OFF THE RAILS.
>> Stephen: THAT'S FAIRLY
COMMON AMONG ALL HUMANS.
>> I THINK SO.
AGAIN, YOU KNOW --
>> Stephen: EXACTLY, YOU'RE A
TOM BRADY F.B.I. MAN.
YOU SEE THOSE THINGS.
>> THIS IS A TELL.
>> Stephen: LIKE THIS.
>> IT WAS JUST LIKE THIS.
>> Stephen: NOW, IN THE BOOK,
IN THE BOOK, WHICH IS A GOOD
READ.
YOU LAY THINGS OUT-- WELL, LIKE
AN INVESTIGATOR.
YOU LAY THINGS OUT IN AN ORDERLY
WAY.
IT'S AN INTERESTING READ.
A VERY INTERESTING READ.
I RECOMMEND IT TO PEOPLE.
I HAVE TO SAY ROD ROSENSTEIN
DOES NOT COME OFF GREAT IN THIS
BOOK.
YOU MENTION HE FEELS LIKE THE
BLAME FOR FIRING COMB SEGOING TO
BE PINNED ON HIM.
HE'S AFRAID IT'S GOING TO BE
PINNED ON HIM BECAUSE HE GAVE
THE PRESIDENT A LETTER JUSTICING
THE FIRING OF JAMES COMEY.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Stephen: DO YOU HAVE ANY
IDEA WHY HE WOULD DO THAT IF HE
DIDN'T, IT WAS ACTUALLY
JUSTIFIED?
BECAUSE YOU AND COMEY IN YOUR
BOOK AND IN HIS BOOK ARE VERY
CLEAR WHERE YOU WILL NOT ALLOW
YOURSELF TO BE PUSHED, WHERE YOU
WILL NOT GO.
AND I GET THE SENSE THAT ROD
ROSENSTEIN FEELS HE WAS PUSHED
INTO A PLACE HE DIDN'T WANT TO
BE.
>> LOOK, I CAN'T-- I CAN'T TELL
YOU WHAT'S IN ROD'S HEAD, BUT
FROM WHAT I OBSERVED, I DON'T
THINK THAT ROD REGRETTED WRITING
THE MEMO.
I'M SURE HE WOULD STILL STAND BY
THAT TO THIS DAY.
WHAT HE WAS TROUBLED BY WAS THE
ADMINISTRATION'S EFFORTS TO MAKE
IT SEEM AS IF THE ENTIRE THING
WAS HIS IDEA WHEN IN FACT, HE
KIND OF STEPPED INTO THE PROCESS
AT THE LAST SECOND AND
VOLUNTEERED TO WRITE THAT MEMO.
>> Stephen: ONE OF THE-- ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT YOU-- NOT IN
THE BOOK BUT IN INTERVIEWS, YOU
SAID THAT-- THE TWO OF YOU
DISCUSSED, ROD ROSENSTEIN
BROUGHT UP THE IDEA OF INVOKING
THE 25th AMENDMENT WHICH
ALLOWS THE VICE PRESIDENT OR THE
MAJORITY OF THE CABINET, THE
SENATE AND HOUSE LEADERS TO
REMOVE THE PRESIDENT FROM
OFFICE.
>> THAT WAS.
>> Stephen: HOW DID THAT COME
UP AGAIN?
I KNOW PELLEY ASKED YOU THIS
QUESTION.
I'M GOING TO ASK YOU AGAIN-- HOW
DID THAT SUBJECT COME UP?
>> IFT CAME UP IN THE MIDDLE OF
A CHAOTIC AND LONG CONVERSATION
ABOUT WHAT WERE WE GOING TO DO
NEXT?
AND, AGAIN, I CAN'T EVEN
DESCRIBE TO YOU HOW
HEAD-SPINNING THIS WAS TO BE THE
HIGHEST RANKING OFFICIAL IN THE
F.B.I., AND ONE OF THE HIGHEST
RANKING OFFICIALS IN THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT CONSIDERING, WE HAVE
A PRESIDENT WHO WE THINK MAY
HAVE ATTEMPTED TO OBSTRUCT
JUSTICE, MAY ALSO PRESENT A
NATIONAL SECURITY THREAT TO THE
NATION.
WHAT DO WE DO ABOUT THIS?
IN MY LANE THAT MEANS
INVESTIGATION, RIGHT.
I'M RUNNING THE INVESTIGATORS.
SO THE QUESTION FOR ME WAS DO WE
INVESTIGATE THIS?
IS IT FSO, HOW?
WHAT'S THE BEST WAY TO DO IT?
AND ROD WAS REALLY JUST KIND OF
SPIN THRIEWG A NUMBER OF
DIFFERENT TOPICS.
THAT'S ONE THICK HE MENTIONED IN
THE COURSE OF THAT CHAOTIC
CONVERSATION.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT I'M
AWARE OF THAT EVER WENT ANY
FURTHER THAN THAT-- THAT BRIEF
MENTION.
>> Stephen: SO THE QUESTION
WAS IF WE HAD TO GET THE
PRESIDENT OUT OF OFFICE, HOW
WOULD I DO THAT?
>> WHAT ARE THE WAYS YOU COULD
--
>> Stephen: REMOVE A PRESIDENT
FROM OFFICE.
OKAY.
LINDSEY GRAHAM HAS CALLED THIS
A-- HE-- LET ME GET THIS RIGHT.
HE WANTS TO INVESTIGATE A
POTENTIAL COUP.
HOW COUP-YDID IT FEEL TO YOU IN
THE MOMENT?
IT'S A CONSTITUTIONAL COUP IN A
WAY, BUT IT'S A GREW.
>> I THINK THAT'S A
CONTRADICTION IN AND OF ITSELF.
>> Stephen: A CONSTITUTIONAL
COUP?
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: LIKE JUMBO SHRIMP,
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT?
(  LAUGHTER  ).
>> IT WAS NOT VERY COUP-Y.
AGAIN, IT WAS A MENTION IN THE
MIDSTAVE WIDE-RANGING
CONVERSATION.
I'M NOT AWARE THAT ROD EVER TOOK
ANY EFFORTS TO PURSUE THAT.
I'M NOT AWARE OF ANY MEET
BUSINESS IT OR OTHER DISCUSSIONS
ON IT.
IT WAS FOR ME REALLY AN
INDICATOR OF JUST HOW FRENZIED
AND FRAUGHT THE SITUATION WAS
THAT WE WERE IN.
AND THOSE ARE THE KIND OF THINGS
THAT WERE BOUNCED AROUND.
>> Stephen: LET'S GET TO THE
MUELLER PROBE FOR JUST A MOMENT
HERE.
IS THERE ANYTHING IN THE LAST
TWO YEARS THAT MAKES YOU LESLESS
SUSPICIOUS OF THE PRESIDENT, OR
LESS INDICATIVE THAT HE HAD
IMPROPER RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE
RUSSIANS, POSSIBLE COLLUSION OR
CONSPIRACY?
>> NO.
( LAUGHTER )
DID I ANSWER TOO QUICKLY?
>> Stephen: NO
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
IT DOES SEEM ODD-- IT DOES SEEM
ODD IT MIGHT BE JUST SORT OF
USEFUL FOR HIM TO SAY OR DO
ANYTHING THAT PUTIN WOULDN'T
LIKE, JUST TO SORT OF TAKE OF
HEAT OFF OF HIM, MAKE HIM SEEP
LESS SUSPICIOUS, BUT HE WON'T DO
THAT.
>> THAT'S DEFINITELY TRUE.
AND I THINK ON THE-- IN ADDITION
TO THAT, AS A RESULT OF THE WORK
THAT THE MUELLER TEAM HAS DONE
AND WHAT WE KNOW OF THAT WORK
FROM WHAT'S BEEN DISCLOSED TO
THE PUBLIC, I MEAN, YOU HAVE AN
INCREDIBLE NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN
THE CAMPAIGN, CLOSE TO THE
PRESIDENT, WHO HAD NUMEROUS
CONTACTS WITH RUSSIANS, PEOPLE
CONNECTED TO RUSSIAN
INTELLIGENCE.
AND NOW WE HAVE MANY OF THOSE
SAME PEOPLE WHO ACTIVELY TRIED
TO COVER UP THOSE CONTACTS.
I MEAN, IT'S-- IT ALL SEEMS TO
GET MORE SUSPICIOUS EVERY DAY.
>> Stephen: WE HAVE TO TAKE A
BREAK.
DON'T GO AWAY.
WHEN WE COME BACK, WE'RE GOING
TO TALK MORE ABOUT THE MUELLER
INVESTIGATION.